
NLP:
1. lexical analysis/part-of-speech tagging 词法分析，名词动词
2. semantic analysis, parsing 语法分析，名词类动词类 词组
   dog(d1),noy(b1),playground(p1),chasing(d1,b1,p1)
3. pragmatic analysis 语用分析，这句话的用处是什么，言者的用意

Main difficulty: ambiguity
 1. word-level ambiguity: 一词名动均可，一词多义
 2. syntactic ambiguity: 词序导致句义变化
 3. anaphora resolution：指代歧义
 4. presupposition: 前提，预设
 
 可实现的: entities extraction 个体信息提取
          word sense disambiguition
          sentiment analysis 积极消极性分析
          
 不可实现的： 100% part-of-speech tagging
             general complete parsing
             precise deep semantic analysis
             
       
NLP for Text Retrieval
 general robust and efficient-shallow NLP
 
 bags of words representation: ignore order, retain words.
 
Text access:
Two Modes: Pull vs. Push
Pull(search engines):1.Users take initiative
                     2.Ad hoc information need-temporary information need
Push(recommender systems):1.Systems take initiative
                          2.Stable information need or system has good knowledge about a user's need
            
 For Pull: Querying vs. Browsing
 Information seeking: 是否知道what exactyly to find
 -Yes: use the right keywords as a query and find the info directly.
 -No: browse the info space or start with a rough query and then browse.
 
Text Retrieval(Search Engine):
定义：collection of text documents exists->user gives a query to express the info need->
  search engine system returns relevant documents to users->info retrieval, but IR is actually much broader
  ->search technology in industry
  
Text Retrieval vs. Database Retrieval
Information区别: unstructured/free text vs. structured data
                 ambiguous vs. well-defined semantics
 Query区别: ambiguous vs. well-defined semantics
            incomplete vs. complete specification
 Answer区别: relevant documents vs. matched records
 
 Text Retrieval is an empirically defined problem
 -Can't mathematically prove one method is better than another
 -Must rely on empirical evaluation involving users
 
 
